README.md, before:

# weewx-airlink
*Open source plugin for WeeWX software.

## Description

A WeeWX plugin that gets its AirLink sensor readings either directly
from the AirLink sensor or from a
[airlink-proxy](https://github.com/chaunceygardiner/weewx-airlink) service.

Copyright (C)2020 by John A Kline (john@johnkline.com)

**This plugin requires Python 3.7, WeeWX 4 and the
[wview_extended](https://github.com/weewx/weewx/blob/master/bin/schemas/wview_extended.py)
schema**

weewx-airlink requires the
[wview_extended](https://github.com/weewx/weewx/blob/master/bin/schemas/wview_extended.py)
in WeeWX 4 that contains pm1_0, pm2_5 and pm10_0 columns.  With the weewx-airlink
extension, Loop records will be populated with pm1_0, pm2_5 and pm10_0 fields that
correspond to AirLink's pm_1_last, pm_2p5_last and pm_10_last fields.

In addition to pm1_0, pm2_5 and pm10_0, AQI variables are also available
(even though they are not in the database) via WeeWX 4's
[XTypes](https://github.com/weewx/weewx/wiki/WeeWX-V4-user-defined-types).
pm2_5_aqi is automatically computed from pm2_5 and can be used in reports
(`$current.pm2_5_aqi`, `$day.pm2_5_aqi`) and in graphs
(`[[[[pm2_5_aqi]]]`).  Also available is
is the [RGBint](https://www.shodor.org/stella2java/rgbint.html) value
`$current.pm2_5_aqi_color` (useful for displaying AQI in the appropriate color
(e.g., green for AQIs <= 50).

Lastly, PM2.5 concentrations and AQI are available with LRAPA and UNBC corrections for
reports (e.g., `$current.pm2_5_lrapa_aqi`, `$current.pm2_5_unbc_aqi`)
and graphs (e.g., `[[[[pm2_5_lrapa_aqi]]]` and `[[[[pm2_5_unbc_aqi]]]`)

The above fields for reporting and graphs, the following additional
fields are inserted into loop redcords (useful for real time updating):
`pm1_0_1m`: PM1 1 minute average
`pm2_5_1m`: PM2.5 1 minute average
`pm10_0_1m`: PM10 1 minute average
`pm2_5_1m_aqi`: PM2.5 1m AQI
`pm2_5_1m_aqi_color`: PM2.5 1m AQI color
`pm2_5_nowcast`: : PM2.5 NowCast
`pm2_5_nowcast_aqi`: PM2.5 NowCast AQI
`pm2_5_nowcast_aqi_color`: PM2.5 NowCast AQI color
`pm10_0_nowcast`: PM10 NowCast

A skin is provided to show a sample report:
![AirLinkReport](AirLinkReport.jpg)

# Installation Instructions

If you don't meet the following requirements, do not install this extension.
  * WeeWX 4
  * Using WeeWX 4's new wview_extended schema.
  * Python 3.7 or greater

1. Download the lastest release, weewx-airlink-0.1.zip, from the
   [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/chaunceygardiner/weewx-airlink).

1. Run the following command.

   `sudo /home/weewx/bin/wee_extension --install weewx-airlink-0.1.zip`

   Note: this command assumes weewx is installed in /home/weewx.  If it's installed
   elsewhere, adjust the path of wee_extension accordingly.

1. Edit the `AirLink` section of weewx.conf (which was created by the install
   above).  AirLink sensors are specified with section names of `Sensor1`,
   `Sensor2`, `Sensor3`, etc.  There is no limit on how many sensors can
   be configured; but the numbering must be sonsecutive.  The order in which
   sensors are interrogated is low numbers to high.  Once a sensor replies,
   no further sensors are interrogated for the current polling round.

   ```
   [AirLink]
       data_binding = airlink_binding
       [[Sensor]]
           enable = true
           hostname = airlink
           port = 80
           timeout = 2
       [[Sensor2]]
           enable = false
           hostname = airlink2
           port = 80
           timeout = 2
   ```

1. Restart WeeWX

1. To check for a successful install, wait for a reporting cycle, then
   navigate in a browser to the WeeWX site and add /airlink to the end
   of the URL (e.g., http://weewx-machine/weewx/airlink).
   The PM2.5 and AQI graphs will fill in over time.

# How to access weewx-airlink fields in reports.

Note: Although the examples below show the use of $current, aggregates are also
supported (e.g., the high PM2.5 for the week can be presented with `$week.pm2_5.max`.

To show the PM2.5 reading, use the following:
```
$current.pm2_5
```

To show the Air Quality Index:
```
$current.pm2_5_aqi
```

To get the RGBINT color of the current Air Quality Index:
```
#set $color = int($current.pm2_5_aqi_color.raw)
#set $blue  =  $color & 255
#set $green = ($color >> 8) & 255
#set $red   = ($color >> 16) & 255
```

To show the PM2.5 reading with LRAPA (Lane Regional Air Protection Agency)
conversion, use the following:
```
$current.pm2_5_lrapa
```

To show the LRAPA Air Quality Index:
```
$current.pm2_5_lrapa_aqi
```

To get the RGBINT color of the current LRAPA Air Quality Index:
```
#set $color = int($current.pm2_5_lrapa_aqi_color.raw)
#set $blue  =  $color & 255
#set $green = ($color >> 8) & 255
#set $red   = ($color >> 16) & 255

To show the PM2.5 reading with UNBC (University of Northern British Columbia)
conversion, use the following:
```
$current.pm2_5_unbc
```

To show the UNBC Air Quality Index:
```
$current.pm2_5_unbc_aqi
```

To get the RGBINT color of the current UNBC Air Quality Index:
```
#set $color = int($current.pm2_5_unbc_aqi_color.raw)
#set $blue  =  $color & 255
#set $green = ($color >> 8) & 255
#set $red   = ($color >> 16) & 255
```

To show the PM1.0 reading, use the following:
```
$current.pm1_0
```

To show the PM10.0 reading, use the following:
```
$current.pm10_0
```

## Licensing

weewx-airlink is licensed under the GNU Public License v3.

Commit message:

Make it clearer that a valid hostname needs to be specified in weewx.conf.

README.md, after:

# weewx-airlink
*Open source plugin for WeeWX software.

## Description

A WeeWX plugin that gets its AirLink sensor readings either directly
from the AirLink sensor or from a
[airlink-proxy](https://github.com/chaunceygardiner/weewx-airlink) service.

Copyright (C)2020 by John A Kline (john@johnkline.com)

**This plugin requires Python 3.7, WeeWX 4 and the
[wview_extended](https://github.com/weewx/weewx/blob/master/bin/schemas/wview_extended.py)
schema**

weewx-airlink requires the
[wview_extended](https://github.com/weewx/weewx/blob/master/bin/schemas/wview_extended.py)
in WeeWX 4 that contains pm1_0, pm2_5 and pm10_0 columns.  With the weewx-airlink
extension, Loop records will be populated with pm1_0, pm2_5 and pm10_0 fields that
correspond to AirLink's pm_1_last, pm_2p5_last and pm_10_last fields.

In addition to pm1_0, pm2_5 and pm10_0, AQI variables are also available
(even though they are not in the database) via WeeWX 4's
[XTypes](https://github.com/weewx/weewx/wiki/WeeWX-V4-user-defined-types).
pm2_5_aqi is automatically computed from pm2_5 and can be used in reports
(`$current.pm2_5_aqi`, `$day.pm2_5_aqi`) and in graphs
(`[[[[pm2_5_aqi]]]`).  Also available is
is the [RGBint](https://www.shodor.org/stella2java/rgbint.html) value
`$current.pm2_5_aqi_color` (useful for displaying AQI in the appropriate color
(e.g., green for AQIs <= 50).

Lastly, PM2.5 concentrations and AQI are available with LRAPA and UNBC corrections for
reports (e.g., `$current.pm2_5_lrapa_aqi`, `$current.pm2_5_unbc_aqi`)
and graphs (e.g., `[[[[pm2_5_lrapa_aqi]]]` and `[[[[pm2_5_unbc_aqi]]]`)

The above fields for reporting and graphs, the following additional
fields are inserted into loop redcords (useful for real time updating):
`pm1_0_1m`: PM1 1 minute average
`pm2_5_1m`: PM2.5 1 minute average
`pm10_0_1m`: PM10 1 minute average
`pm2_5_1m_aqi`: PM2.5 1m AQI
`pm2_5_1m_aqi_color`: PM2.5 1m AQI color
`pm2_5_nowcast`: : PM2.5 NowCast
`pm2_5_nowcast_aqi`: PM2.5 NowCast AQI
`pm2_5_nowcast_aqi_color`: PM2.5 NowCast AQI color
`pm10_0_nowcast`: PM10 NowCast

A skin is provided to show a sample report:
![AirLinkReport](AirLinkReport.jpg)

# Installation Instructions

If you don't meet the following requirements, do not install this extension.
  * WeeWX 4
  * Using WeeWX 4's new wview_extended schema.
  * Python 3.7 or greater

1. Download the lastest release, weewx-airlink-0.1.zip, from the
   [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/chaunceygardiner/weewx-airlink).

1. Run the following command.

   `sudo /home/weewx/bin/wee_extension --install weewx-airlink-0.1.zip`

   Note: this command assumes weewx is installed in /home/weewx.  If it's installed
   elsewhere, adjust the path of wee_extension accordingly.

1. Edit the `AirLink` section of weewx.conf (which was created by the install
   above).  In particular, change the hostname in the section labeled Sensor1 to
   be a name resolvable to the IP address of the AirLink sensor or the IP address
   of the AirLink sensors.  More sensors can be specified.  For example, to add
   a second AirLink sensor, enable the Sensor2 section and specify the hostname.
   There is no limit to how many sensors can be configured; but the numbering must
   be sonsecutive.  The order in which sensors are interrogated is low numbers to
   high.  Once a sensor replies, no further sensors are interrogated for the current
   polling round.

   ```
   [AirLink]
       [[Sensor1]]
           enable = true
           hostname = airlink
           port = 80
           timeout = 2
       [[Sensor2]]
           enable = false
           hostname = airlink2
           port = 80
           timeout = 2
   ```

1. Restart WeeWX

1. To check for a successful install, wait for a reporting cycle, then
   navigate in a browser to the WeeWX site and add /airlink to the end
   of the URL (e.g., http://weewx-machine/weewx/airlink).
   The PM2.5 and AQI graphs will fill in over time.

# How to access weewx-airlink fields in reports.

Note: Although the examples below show the use of $current, aggregates are also
supported (e.g., the high PM2.5 for the week can be presented with `$week.pm2_5.max`.

To show the PM2.5 reading, use the following:
```
$current.pm2_5
```

To show the Air Quality Index:
```
$current.pm2_5_aqi
```

To get the RGBINT color of the current Air Quality Index:
```
#set $color = int($current.pm2_5_aqi_color.raw)
#set $blue  =  $color & 255
#set $green = ($color >> 8) & 255
#set $red   = ($color >> 16) & 255
```

To show the PM2.5 reading with LRAPA (Lane Regional Air Protection Agency)
conversion, use the following:
```
$current.pm2_5_lrapa
```

To show the LRAPA Air Quality Index:
```
$current.pm2_5_lrapa_aqi
```

To get the RGBINT color of the current LRAPA Air Quality Index:
```
#set $color = int($current.pm2_5_lrapa_aqi_color.raw)
#set $blue  =  $color & 255
#set $green = ($color >> 8) & 255
#set $red   = ($color >> 16) & 255

To show the PM2.5 reading with UNBC (University of Northern British Columbia)
conversion, use the following:
```
$current.pm2_5_unbc
```

To show the UNBC Air Quality Index:
```
$current.pm2_5_unbc_aqi
```

To get the RGBINT color of the current UNBC Air Quality Index:
```
#set $color = int($current.pm2_5_unbc_aqi_color.raw)
#set $blue  =  $color & 255
#set $green = ($color >> 8) & 255
#set $red   = ($color >> 16) & 255
```

To show the PM1.0 reading, use the following:
```
$current.pm1_0
```

To show the PM10.0 reading, use the following:
```
$current.pm10_0
```

## Licensing

weewx-airlink is licensed under the GNU Public License v3.
